Welcome everyone to today's webinar. We're going to talk about reproducible
examples from a conceptual point of view and why they're surprisingly important
and then also a great deal from a mechanical point of view, how to make
your reproducible examples in a way that they're easy to share with other people.
Okay, so this short link, the rstud.io, reprex currently points to a copy of
these slides on speaker deck. Another very relevant URL is reprex.tidyverse.org
which is the website for the package I'm going to talk about. And we may
change what the upper short link links to as a result of this webinar because
we're pretty excited to get some of these materials captured, but I promise
it will always point to something very relevant to this package that will link
to absolutely everything else. And you're also going to see that short link many
many times during this presentation. And as said in the intro, this video will
also be posted within 48 hours and all of these things will be publicized.
And this is my license. Okay, so the first thing I want to do is show basic usage
and we're just going to get right into it and then we'll unpack what you just
saw. So I'm actually going to leave my slides and go over to RStudio. So I'm
sitting here in an RStudio session. It's fresh and I have a little bit of code up
here in my source editor. I'm going to make a factor X, a factor Y. I'm going to
combine them and get what to most of us is kind of a puzzling result. So this is
just going to be an example of a small piece of code that maybe you want to
talk about on the community site or share with your local R expert and ask
like what's going on. So this is how you would use reprex to turn this little
snippet of code into a reproducible example. This is the path of least
resistance. We'll talk about other methods later. So I would select a little
piece of code and copy it to my clipboard. Then over in the R console I'm
going to type reprex and you will see that that little piece of code is run
and then basically a beautiful attractive version of that is stored on
my clipboard and I can preview it here. So if I were to paste the contents of my
clipboard right now, you actually see what's called markdown and this is
what's necessary to create the attractive version of this code. And why
is this helpful? Because you can go to places like GitHub, the RStudio
community site, or Stack Overflow and paste this markdown in. So I'm going to
show you what this would look like in a GitHub issue. So that's that same
markdown that you just saw. GitHub lets you preview things and you'll see that
it looks just the way it did locally for me. It's been rendered, it's syntax
highlighted, we have a tiny little ad down here that tells people how you did
this and I could submit that as a GitHub issue. So that is the basic process and
the reason I can just type reprex is that I always have this package attached
and so you might need to call this and we're going to talk a great deal about
that next. So that is what basic reprex usage looks like. It creates a small
little piece of code, renders it nicely, and it's ready to paste into other
formats. So this is just a static version of what we just did and this is the GIF
that I use on the reprex website. I re-watched this clip, it's from a movie
called Jerry Maguire, it's still highly recommended. And basically the reason for
bothering to do all of this is if you're going somewhere to have a conversation
about R, to have questions answered, or to describe a bug in software, being
careful about how you make your reproducible example makes it much, much,
easier for other people to help you. And I want to explain where this word came
from, reprex. So Roman first tweeted this and I thought it was just a great made-up
word. So it is short for reproducible example, so it is a completely made-up
word, but it's just very handy. And I'm going to use the word reprex over and
over and over again in this webinar, so I want to be very clear that I'm using
it in, I'd say, three distinct but related ways. So I think people, at least
in the small R community, are starting to say reprex just as a noun, like it is a
reproducible example. And that has nothing to do with whether you use this
package or not. But then today's webinar is going to show you use of a package
with that same name, reprex, that you can install from CRAN. I'll show you how to
do that in just a moment. And then this is a pretty small package. It has a
couple of functions, but really the main function it has is also called reprex. So
this webinar is going to talk about how to use the reprex function inside the
reprex package to produce a good-looking reproducible example. And
when does this come up in your life? It's very handy for conversations that you
have on community.rstudio.com. It's very handy for preparing questions or
answers for Stack Overflow. It's very handy for reporting bugs or making
feature requests for an R package that is developed on GitHub. And also very
useful for having detailed conversations about R in Slack or in email. So a
reproducible example, conceptually, is useful in all of those places. And then
this package, reprex, smooths over some of the mechanics. So here I'm going to
talk to you about what you're going to need to do on your computer to make this
package available to yourself. So reprex does not come with R. It does not come
with RStudio. You have to make an explicit effort to install it. So you
should pick one of these methods and it's the type of thing that you do once
per computer. So you could use install.packages, open quote, reprex,
close quote, to install just the reprex package. It is also part of the meta
package that we call tidyverse. So if you did install.packages tidyverse,
reprex would be one of the many packages that get installed on your machine. In
general, there is very little harm that you can do to yourself by reinstalling
packages. So you also should not stress out too much about, you know, you could
install just reprex and then install the tidyverse and nothing bad will happen. So
do it once per machine just because that's the minimum you need to do, but
it's no tragedy if you reinstall things. Once you've installed, you still need to
use our sort of library call to make the reprex functions available in your R
session. So you would need to do this in every R session that you plan to use
reprex in. So that might be something that you do multiple times per day,
certainly way, way, way, way more than once per computer. So every time you
want to use the package, you'll need to execute the library reprex command. Now
I use reprex several times a day, the most part, and so that would be very
annoying. So an alternative, if you also become a semi heavy user of this
package, is to make it available to yourself all the time. So you can
control the startup behavior of R through a file called dot R profile and
conventionally it's found in your home directory. And so this snippet of code
suppressed messages require reprex looks a little different from what you just
saw, but it's sort of a better way to attach this package in your in your
startup file. So you would put this snippet of code there in your R profile
and then forevermore when you start R, the reprex package would be available.
And if you have never thought about your R profile file before, there is a
function in the use this package, which you would also have to install, that will
create it for you if you don't have it, or if you do have it, it would open it
for you for editing in case you wanted to put something like this snippet in
there. So once you've done those two things, you've installed it and you've
attached it through either the library command or by putting something in your
dot R profile, you are ready to use the reprex function. And what you saw me do
in that first demo was I actually called the reprex function explicitly in the R
console and something you'll see me do before we're done is we also have put
some what are called RStudio add-ins into this package that give you even
more ways to launch this function. And this is a bit of a sidebar, but since I
have shown you how to put things in your R profile file, I also want to tell you
how to do that responsibly. So reprex is a workflow package. It's something you
would use in your daily work to make your life a little bit easier. You use it
interactively. I would be pretty shocked to see it show up in a typical person's
R scripts, R markdown files, packages, or shiny apps. And so the fact that it
doesn't show up in those things, it's an interactive package, makes it safe to
attach in your R profile. But I don't want you to get the wrong idea and think
oh my god I should do this with all my packages. So I would not want to see this
kind of code using like dplyr or ggplot2 or things that do show up in your
scripts. And it's because your scripts would then become highly not
self-contained. And they they would work for you because of stuff in your R
profile, but they won't work for other people. So this is an interesting
technique to know about, but you need to be really really careful about what you
do here. So I think it's safe to put reprex in there. It is not safe to put
dplyr in there. Okay so we're going to get back to the package and to
reproducible examples now. So I wanted to give a brief intro like what on earth
in my life drove me to make this one of my missions. Before I joined RStudio I
was a professor at the University of British Columbia and I had a course
called stat 545 that has a lot of content online to this day. The course
continues, you could go there. And I ran this course entirely on github and so it
meant that all of my dialogue with students, both sort of me to the whole
class and and me talking to individual students, took place in github issues.
And I actually analyzed my github usage in the course and I found that every
fall I was participating in at least 300 maybe 500 github issue threads and
that's just in my teaching life. So I spend a great deal of time talking about
R in those places and solving people's R problems. And to do that well I actually
wanted to use executable R code and the friction involved in making that look
good started to drive me crazy. And now that I'm no longer a full-time faculty
member and I'm working full-time on R packages, this just gives you a sense of
the intensity of my github activity over the last year. So now I still work with
tons and tons of github issues, you know, in a different capacity and then I also
talk about R a lot in Slack. So I still have this sort of hourly need to run
little pieces of R code and share what I'm seeing with other people. So trying
to remove friction for myself and other people led me to create a few principles
that I knew had to be true of a tool to make this easier. So this is the reprex
philosophy. I think that conversations about code are much more productive if
they contain three things. Well it's one thing but three properties. Code that
actually runs. Okay. Code that I do not have to run as the reader but code that
I can easily run. And so there is a little bit of self-contradiction here
but the point is you want to make it easy for people to interact with your
reproducible example in a whole bunch of different ways. They can just be a
consumer. They can just read it or they can easily grab it and run it themselves,
modify it and share that back with you. So I want to be really detailed about
what I mean when I say code that actually runs. So you're gonna isolate a
little piece of R code and you hand it off to reprex. You've seen one demo we're
about to do a whole bunch more. That code is taken and it is run in a completely
new R session and that means it has to be completely self-contained. So it must
include the command to load all necessary packages and it must create
all necessary objects. And this can be very frustrating for people but it's
extremely important. So I'm going to go do this live to show exactly what I mean.
Okay so I'm looking at an R script that contains the code you just saw on that
slide. And I'm going to restart R. So let's imagine like a typical interactive
R session. So I'm going to be down in the console here and I'm going to say oh
I'd like to play a little bit with this praise package I've heard about. So there
I go. I say library praise down on the console. Now up in my source editor I
make a new object called template and it's a template string exclamation your
reprex is adjective. And so if I then call the praise function from the praise
package I don't expect you to know this I'm just using it as an example. It's
going to create like random little sentences for us praising someone for
their awesome reprex. So let's say I want to share my joy about this with
people using the reprex package. I would select this little snippet of code again
this is the the long way I'll show you a short way later. Copy it go down to the
console type reprex and hit return. And now let's look at the preview here. It
shows defining template and then my praise call fails. Error in praise could
not find function praise. And that's because you don't have the library
praise command here. So over in that fresh R session the praise package is
not available to use. So here's something else you might do you're like okay I'm
going to add that command then I'm going to make my call to the package.
Let's see if that works. Copy call reprex again. I have a new error. Error in grep
whatever whatever object template not found. So this snippet is incomplete in a
different way. It actually doesn't contain the code that defines the
template object. So here's the full snippet. It loads the praise package. It
defines the template object and it makes this function call. So I'm going to copy
all of that to the clipboard. Re-execute reprex and we have made an exquisite
reprex. So that's a little belabored but when I try to answer our questions for
people and I try to run their code the two most common ways that I fail are
that they haven't explicitly listed all the packages they're using and I have to
either sleuth it out of them or figure it out for myself and add those commands
or the objects they're referring to are not available to me and so those are
the two reasons why I can't run their code. So on the reprex website I have a
list of do's and don'ts that are distilled from a lot of other really
fantastic sources about creating reproducible examples which are
referenced there but the three big big high points are you need to write this
reproducible example using the smallest the simplest and the most built-in data
set you can get away with and that is very uncomfortable for people. I'm going
to talk about that in a second. Include commands on a ruthlessly strict need to
run basis so you really need to strip your example down and then I say pack it
in pack it out and don't take liberties with other people's computers and this
is referring to making sure that if you create files you remove them or if you
change the working directory you reset it if you change options you reset them
but basically leaving things as you found them but I want to talk about so
let's see here's here's what that web page would look like if you want to read
it more but let me just give a short example of something that a lot of
people struggle with which is that they feel like they have some big hairy data
object and they can only show their example using it so tricks to know so
the read CSV file you probably think of as normally being a function that you
use to bring data sorry the read CSV function is something you usually bring
delimited data in from a file but it also has a text argument that allows you
to inline really tiny our objects and then also just the data frame function
itself so I'm going to reprex using a keyboard shortcut those two snippets of
code and see that's a very easy way to make a very tiny data frame either in
line using read CSV or sort of from first principles using data frame and
then if you are a tidy verse adherent the table package is what takes care of
the care and feeding of tables which are a flavor of data frame and the triple
function is extremely useful for creating tiny little data frames because
it allows you to write it in this really humane row wise way like the same way it
would look in for example in a CSV file so if I reprex this little snippet
you'll see very very similar output as what we just saw with the base function
but it allows you to inline the creation in this case of a two row two column
data frame or you can again use just the table function directly and so if you
make a lot of reprex is you get you get really good at figuring out how to in
line the creation of very small objects of course figuring out what's the
smallest object that still shows your problem is difficult and we're going to
talk about that very end okay another principle is that the reprex should
contain code I do not have to run because a lot of your readers have a
great deal of our experience and sometimes not always but sometimes they
can quickly see the point without actually running the code but that is
greatly enhanced if they can see the output instead of having to run it in
their head and in their imagination and try to figure out what's happening it's
just much easier if you can actually see the output and so that's why I think
it's important that your typical reprex contains the code and it also reveals
the output being produced by that code so here's an example I took from the
github repository where the read our package is developed because it's a
perfect little example and it probably was produced with reprex you can't tell
and this person is just reporting a bug but it's like a great minimal example it
says you know if the header and your CSV contains quoted new lines you get
kind of a weird column name and you get weird data and the fact that this person
provided a small example and it completely shows the problem I imagine
is what allowed the maintainer Jim Hester who's listening to this call to
quickly label this as a bug and we've already got at least one other user
giving it a thumbs up meaning they've experienced it as well and so if you
would only have the code here I think you'd have a lot less sort of quick
engagement with this issue and so I want to show you yeah okay so code that I can
easily run is very important we're going to keep working with that issue so if
that person had instead copied and pasted the output from their our console
this is what we would be faced with so if I were Jim Hester and I needed to to
reproduce this issue and make sure that it's still a problem I have a lot of
really annoying editing to do so I have to get rid of all the prompts at the
beginning of the lines I have to get rid of all this output to isolate the three
lines of code that actually do anything so copy paste from the our console hits
some of our checklist but it's not great because it's very hard for the next
person to run this code worse than copy paste is the screenshot so this of
course does again hit some of our checklist it clearly shows the code and
the output but again if somebody else wanted to check this and reproduce it
they actually have to retype everything which frankly is never going to happen
and so this is what I want to see in a reprex because it can be copy pasted and
run so I'm going to prove that to you right now so if I go to this issue on
github and I copy I could copy all of this or I could as long as I get all the
commands I'm okay so I'm going to put that on my clipboard I'm going to go
back to our maybe to make this really explicit I'll show you what I copied
right that's what I did so I can copy this again and call reprex
and I get exactly what this person was reporting on github so I've been able to
reproduce it very quickly from a copy paste but as you saw reprex is like are
you sure you want to do this because I'm I've got this output here and so if you
if you really want to get really clean code from a reprex that someone else has
made you capture it and use one of the undo functions and the reprex package I
could use a reprex clean and I'll show you that right now so here's what I
copied from github so I could copy that
and call reprex clean and now if I paste you'll see all the output has been
eliminated and so I think that's a slightly obscure thing you might want to
do but there are the full set of backwards functions in reprex so it
helps you take code that people have copied from the console or that they
have already made a reprex from okay so we've gotten to essentially the the meat
of the webinar now so if you were really interested in basic usage you've seen it
now and now I'm going to go into the shock and awe section where I run
through a lot of more interesting features of the reprex package that I
still think are pretty cool so the slides show you what we're about to do
live I'm going back to R studio and I'm in a script called shock and awe I'm
gonna restart R just for good measure so the first thing I want to show you is
how frictionless reprex can make it to talk to people about figures so I'm
gonna load the gapminder data and ggplot2 and I'm gonna make a plot with
ggplot2 so you see it down here in my plots pane so let's say that there's
something about this I don't like or that I want to discuss with a colleague
I can use reprex for this so as usual I can select the snippet copy to my
clipboard and run reprex you're gonna see all the same stuff so we've got an
nicely rendered reprex that includes the figure but watch this I'm gonna go
to a github repo that I created just play around with I'm gonna create a new
issue I have a question about this plot and I'm gonna paste let's look at what
we've got we have the usual sort of nicely formatted markdown and look at
this so when when reprex rendered this code it made your figure and pushed it
up to imager and dropped this link into your markdown so if I submit this issue
people see my code and they see the actual figure that you just made so this
is an example of one of the cool things you can do that that removes a
tremendous amount of friction if you're trying to have a quick conversation with
somebody about code that produces figures okay so we're going to go back
to this shock and awe script and we're going to execute reprex many times
showing some of the options and different arguments you have so so far
I've only shown you reprexing when the source code is on the clipboard but
there are a lot of other ways to provide the input so you can provide it directly
in the reprex call as an expression so here you see that the assignment of X
and Y gets done and we compute the correlation between them there's also
an input argument that I'm actually not going to demonstrate where you can
provide the source as a file or as a character vector reprex by default goes
and does its work in the session temp directory that's all part of it
sandboxing all of your work but if your reprex does for example file input and
output it could be much easier to force reprex to work in your current working
directory so out file equals na is shorthand for that so if I try to if I
ask are to write the first six letters of the alphabet to a file with out file
equals na all of a sudden these four files that reprex needs to create are
being left behind in my working directory instead of in a temp directory
and it's the R script that reprex makes it's the HTML that it uses for the
preview and the markdown that it puts on the clipboard for you so all those usual
files are left behind in a much more accessible place but you'll notice it
has a god-awful file name because we just created it out of thin air so if
you want to work somewhere specifically and have nice file names you could also
provide the base for that in out file and now you see that it leaves the same
four files behind but they have a much better file name okay so so far I've
been producing reprex output that's optimized for github so it's producing
what's called github flavored markdown but stack overflow is another common
target and that produces slightly different looking markdown stack
overflow doesn't use fenced code blocks it use and indented code blocks and let
me show you what this would look like I'm going to pretend like I'm going to
answer my own question on stack overflow but I won't actually submit this but now
if you paste that into stack overflow it also has a preview feature and it will
be formatted correctly for stack overflow
you can also make reprex produce it creates an R script which seems sort of
weird but an R script that includes the output as comments and that is very
handy for pasting into an email or into slack so I'm going to show you the slack
version of that so this is me talking to myself on slack I'm going to create a
code snippet paste it maybe I always have it set to R create a snippet and
that would create a little R file in slack properly syntax highlighted and
again people could copy paste it into R and run it or sometimes you just want to
inline it you don't get the syntax highlighting but that also looks quite
nice the final venue I'll talk about is RTF for rich text format and this is a
very experimental venue it only works probably on the Mac at this point
because I actually have to call an external utility to do this but I'd like
to show you this and in fact it's how I made the slides for this talk so we run
a little bit of code but now I can go over to keynote or PowerPoint or
something and I could paste that in and I'm getting rendered R code that is
properly syntax highlighted and that is in fact how all the snippets in my
webinar were produced you can suppress the inclusion of that little ad at the
bottom or you can include it you can ask for your reprex to include session info
and for the github venue it can be placed in this cute little collapsible
thing so this is a great thing to include if you think for example that
the bug you're reporting could possibly be related to the version of software on
your computer and I love that it gets folded here so then sometimes people
include this when they don't need to and it's kind of overwhelming so the fact
that we can put it in this folding tag is really nice reprex can also use the
styler package to restyle your code so here's a really I would say poorly
formatted piece of code so by default reprex trusts that you know what you're
doing and that you you like your formatting but if you don't trust
yourself you can explicitly ask for reprex to restyle your code and give it
a much more conventional layout you can be silly and change your comment string
and make it some sort of emoticon if you want reprex is part of the tidyverse
right and so the tidyverse meta package can be quite chatty at startup and tell
you all the packages that you've just attached and if there are conflicts
between them so we actually have a special argument where you can control
whether you want that or not and usually you don't so we default to silencing it
and then the last thing I'll show you is reprex can actually capture input that
in an interactive chef session shows up in your console but it's actually being
sent to standard output or standard error so I'm going to install a package
from GitHub that requires compilation this takes a moment so I'm going to chat
over it but what you're going to see when this reprex actually renders is
that we have captured everything that would normally show up in the R console
when doing this so the stuff that is sort of coming from R as well as the
things that are being sent standard output and standard input I was hoping
that would be enough that there we go okay and so here's the output of
installing the bench package from GitHub which does require compilation and so
this is the part that's coming through sort of normal our channels and this is
capturing what's being sent to standard output and standard input so that wasn't
very quick live demo of some of the more I don't know if they're really
advanced but features you don't need in every reprex but that you might need
before long a lot of the things that I showed you toggling on and off you can
actually set up your own personal defaults for these things by again
putting some code in your dot R profile which we've already talked about so this
is just an example of someone who hates the ad they always want to include
session info they always want to restyle their code they have a whimsical
sense of what the comment string should be for output and they they always want
to see the tidyverse startup message so these are not my defaults but it's an
example of what you can do and the last thing I'll show you mechanically is most
of the time I do not do what I've shown you which is copying code to the keyboard
and then going to the console and typing reprex there are two RStudio add-ins
that really accelerate your reprex life and one of them is called render reprex
which launches a GUI I'll show you that in a second or reprex selection literally
reprex is the code that you have selected and it's absolutely conceived
for use with a keyboard shortcut and RStudio lets you modify your keyboard
shortcuts and so I have bound that add-in to shift command R this is how I
usually use reprex and for example Hadley also uses it a lot he has bound
it to something else and let me go show you the add-in so again I could select
the snippet of code that made that figure and launch the add-in and so this
allows you to specify a lot of the things that you can specify in the call
by clicking so I am going to take the source from the current selection let's
target stack overflow and yes let's append session info click render and the
usual things happen and the usual output appears down here and stack overflow
doesn't have the capability to support this little folding toggle so the
session info actually gets dumped in there and it's full glory so that is
these are two other ways to get your input into the reprex function that
actually are probably more humane than typing it all the time all right the
last thing I'll say we have I'll try to go quite quickly because we're already
at 45 minutes is talking a little bit about the human side of making
reproducible examples and now this has nothing to do with the reprex package
it's just about asking questions so that they actually get answered and I like
this image because it conveys somehow that you know we're talking about
programming maybe we're all supposed to be acting like robots and people often
seem to assume that they're talking to robots but that there's a lot of humans
involved in this process and I want to warn you I'm getting a little bit of
tough love here there's there's been a lot of although probably still not
enough talk of of experts being empathetic to newcomers and question
askers but since this is a talk targeted at people asking questions and preparing
examples I also want to say it has to go the other direction as well so bear with
me for a moment here but I need to say you know with all the love in the world
sometimes people come with a question and they have like a very rigid theory
about what's wrong or how they should be solving a problem but if your theory
about what was going wrong was so great like you you wouldn't be here asking
this question right now and this is the origin of why people really want to see
code instead of having sort of a prose discussion because it's very hard
sometimes to tell what people are really talking about the other life phenomenon
I want to link this to is I don't know if you've had this experience but if
you've ever tried to help for example one of your relatives sort out a
computer problem over the phone it can be extremely difficult a lot of what
they're saying doesn't really make sense they don't use the words you're used to
to refer to things you just feel like you can't really get a grip on things
and this is basically what it feels like when you're trying to answer
someone's programming question just based on English prose and again like
this is why people constantly push you to actually just show a small piece of
code removes all sorts of ambiguity so let's assume that everybody that
question asker and the question answer is acting in good faith and if they're
not then they're irrelevant to me okay so everyone's in good faith it turns
out that experts posting on public sites actually are afraid to post code that
doesn't work and so another reason why these people want to see your code is
you know they're not just reading it and guessing most of these people are
actually running your code proving that their proposed solution works and then
they post it when they know that it's safe to do so and this is a big like
revelation to me I really used to think that the people I looked up to as
experts just knew all this stuff by heart and they were answering all these
questions just off the cuff and then it gradually dawned on me that part of why
they're experts or expert behavior is that they are constantly running lots of
small examples and experiments so sharing your problem in code is
extremely fruitful making a good reprex is a lot of work like sometimes you
think I can only show my problem in my our session and I haven't restarted our
for seven months and it requires the full data set from my thesis and that is
in fact true it is a lot of work but you're asking other people to solve a
problem and so this is part of meeting them halfway but it turns out you get a
lot out of this as well so let's be very selfish if you make a good reprex
out of your hairy messy problem and if you reproduce other people's problems
even reproducing other people's problems is a real service and then sometimes
you're gonna be able to solve them it turns out this discipline it's like
playing scales or you know serving over and over again like you actually get
better at programming by doing this and the last selfish point that I'll make is
it turns out when you sit down to make a good reprex out of your problem and you
keep it self-contained you strip down your giant hairy data set to the
smallest data set that reproduces the problem it is amazing how often you end
up answering your own question in the privacy of your own home and you didn't
have to make yourself vulnerable to other people so this is a great
revelation and I think the reason this works is that when you have a problem
it's very easy to just keep going in circles and banging your head against
the desk but there's something about preparing it for other people and the
reprex package is also being a real hard-ass about making sure that your
problem is self-contained it kind of knocks you out of that very unproductive
place and gets you back on the path of actually working the problem so most
people report this when they first start making reproducible examples is that
it's kind of amazing how often this exercise means you actually answer your
own question I will skip over this section since we're out of time and I
didn't think people wanted to know it but it's here a little bit about what's
happening behind the scenes and I will conclude I want to give a huge thank you
to you Huizhe and all the people who have brought us the R Markdown package
and Pandoc the reprex package is just a wrapper around those things and I mean
that in both senses like that is literally all that it is so in some
sense there's not much there there but on the other hand when I first made it
and especially now that I've worked on it more there's actually a lot more
going on like the friction that it removes is friction that is really
important to remove I think so in any case it could not be possible without
R Markdown and Pandoc and in fact I should thank all the co-authors of
reprex and there's a lot of people who have contributed to it and a lot of
users who've been extremely generous with their bug reports and feature
requests and reporting how things work on different platforms so to conclude go
forth and engage in very precise code heavy conversations about R I'm going to
take a look at the questions now can reprex be able to also capture variables
in the environment and include in the reproducible example currently it cannot
and that is very intentional because we we really prioritize this sandboxing I
am actually contemplating basically creating a backdoor for this mostly
because of creating RTF snippets but at the moment it cannot and that is
intentional but you know I'm open to people sharing their use case about why
that should be but basically if you do this yeah there are ways you could do it
that actually make those objects available to other people as well but it
becomes a much heavier weight package so so far we have not done that oftentimes
this is a continuation of that question the issue is buried in some part of
larger code and rather than going back to the places where that data is
gathered or calculated wouldn't it be nice to grab the variable in current
state again like yes and no I would say extracting that out is perhaps part of
your job I'm now realizing that some of these questions have been answered does
reprex the function actually check that the code is self-contained or does it
just generate the template it just generates a template so the way you
would find out that your code is not self-contained is that you get an error
but it explicitly allows errors because sometimes you're using reprex to show
errors so no it is just it's on you the human to decide if you're getting the
result you expect does read our read CSV support the text argument as an
alternative to file or is that only in read CSV read R also does this it also
supports the inline creation of a data frame it does it through its primary
argument so you would want to read the help for me underscore CSV but in fact
it's actually sort of even a smaller departure from your usual use I think I
have another instance of the same question which is could reprex help you
package up an existing data set and stick it into your data that reprex do
and don't document outlines various ways of doing this for example D put is
a great function if you have a slightly awkward object and you simply cannot
make your point without using it D put at least creates a representation of
that that you can put into a reprex but so far you're right I have not made this
terribly easy and at least the story I tell myself is that finding a really
simple object and making it like is intrinsically part of the reprex task
but this does come up over and over again can you do a reprex for a shiny
app it's not easy I think the shiny team is or has developed their own web page
talking about how you create shiny reprex is like and they don't use this
package so now I'm talking about reprex is as a concept can reprex produce
interactive plots all I will say is I have not done so so I'll end on this
question I don't know it would have to be tried but what I will say the slide
that I skipped over what actually happens so currently reprex works by
dumping your R code into a templated R script and I have contemplated
revisiting this and dumping it into a into an R markdown file and then it
would be much more capable in terms of what you can do like in some ways
there's a lot of equivalence between rendering R scripts and R markdown files
but there are some key differences and so I could imagine that the ability to
include interactivity is probably present if you're using R markdown and
could easily be absent if you're using R all right I think I will leave it here
and conclude the webinar